welcome welcome welcome to armchair
expert experts on Expert I'm Dan Shepard
I'm joined by Lily padman hi
hello one of the most impressive authors
we're ever going to interview is today
Pulitzer Prize winner sidarthur muker
who wrote the most beautiful book called
The Emperor of all maladies a biography
of cancer and the gene an intimate
history of cancer research and probably
beautiful book an Incredible Book I'm I
mean really like once in a lifetime I
couldn't believe what I was reading and
comes up all the time as like one of the
best books on cancer science books books
books books books by the way so he's
Incredible S Arthur he's also a
oncologist he's a doctor he's a
researcher he's every single thing yes
Road
scholar all and then a beautiful writer
what was mindblowing we didn't talk
about this in the fact check uhoh what
the most impressive thing I found about
him is how many [__] books he's read
and how much he can remember okay so Sid
he goes by Sid by the way Sid M has a
new book out called the song of the cell
an exploration of medicine and the new
human he's going to it's proposed he's
going to write four books basically on
living and this is the third of those
books and it too is extraordinarily
beautiful and well written and so I hope
you both read the song of the cell uh
and enjoy sidarthur
[Music]
muker tell me can you hear us I can hear
you through my headphones yes oh my gosh
okay now we're ready to party this is
Monica padman hello her family's from
carola okay where I'm going very soon oh
you are what will you do there I'm doing
the carala literary Festival but I've
been to carola many times it's a big
favorite of mine because I love the food
and I love the backwaters and I love
being there so the kids have been even
I've never well I have them but I was
four so I have very little memory I've
heard too that ecstasy and psychedelics
are widely available there do you want
to comment on that deny it confirm it I
haven't tried them there but if they
were then you know
okay first and foremost you mentioned in
the setup of this recording equipment
that you do not own a TV and that might
be the most important thing we'll talk
about today do you not find that you're
left out of a ton of social
conversations like when people are
talking about Game of Thrones or making
a murderer or any of these Zeitgeist
shows are you completely out first of
all I don't know how to spell Zeitgeist
and secondly I'm actually happy to be
out of that Zeitgeist I do read the New
York Times And The Wall Street Journal
with great Fidelity I get enough of my
news out of those then I need to and I'm
not 100% sure I need to know every
single character in The Game of
Thrones what about movies do you go see
any movies I do see movies I love seeing
movies I'm a big movie fan but nowadays
I see most of them on Netflix okay now
I'm very confused so now you have
Netflix do you have it on an iPad or
something I have it on my computer oh
okay so you can watch stuff on the
computer if necessary so for instance do
you think I'm missed the Serena Williams
match no okay okay good good good so do
you think I missed Federer's last match
no okay there's a niche that we're
hearing you watch only tennis tennis is
not the only example I mean do you think
I missed one2 200th of the various
things that happened during the Queen's
funeral no I watched 10 minutes of
it that's more than we watch but I
didn't watch it on television I watched
it on my computer okay I feel much safer
now now we can proceed you do have a
portal I just needed to know that if you
needed or wanted to that you had the
portal to do it can I say something
crazy yes I wonder if you've ever heard
it this is nuts but this is what we do
here has anyone ever said you have a
bradle Cooper Vibe oh wow oh that's
interesting yeah now we're getting
somewhere I wasn't expecting it but I
feel it for a long time which is totally
inexplicable to me people said I have a
Jeff Goldblum Vibe I'm one of those
people but let's be very clear about it
you don't have a Jeff Goldblum Vibe good
thank you you don't look anything like
him what you have and I have said this
on this podcast when bragging about
having met you was I was at a conference
up in Montana that you were at and I was
was absolutely intrigued by you I did
not know yet that you were Sid I had
read your book but I don't know what the
author of emperor of all males looks
like and I'm just clocking that there's
a scientist at this event who's got a
leather jacket wild [__] Elvis hair a
cool beard a total Vibe and I was saying
to my wife the scientist from Jurassic
Park is here like there's a rockar
scientist at this
event truly and I even said that Adam
Grant who introduced us I said who is
the Rockstar scientist at this event
that's what people mean not that you
physically look like him oh that I breed
dinosaurs in my incubator basically
that's the point no the point is that
you are a punk rock scientist I'm going
to embrace that you should you should
and now you have Bradley Cooper to add
to the mix I've doubled down now if this
thing goes two hours they'll be calling
you Brad pet okay so you leave India and
you go first to Stamford and then you
you are a road scholar at Oxford and you
get your PhD and then you go to Harvard
and get your medical degree my first
curiosity is what is the cultural leap
from New Deli to Stamford is it an easy
transition for you does it feel natural
or is it like well because you not just
went to an American University you went
to the probably the most eclectic one of
the group right so I just have to push
you back in time to 1989 there are no
cell phones there's barely email there's
only land lines and I come to Stanford
which is lovely except I'm out of touch
with everyone including my entire family
who think I've gone to the dead because
I don't have a landline set up I don't
have any way of contacting them and so
my mother after 4 days in a cold panic
she calls the international office she
says I have no news of my son he's
supposedly at Stanford but I have no
idea and the guy is like lanky lots of
hair and and looks usually as if he's
lost on campus do I get this right and
my mom says
yes and the guy says he's
here I'm looking at him now he seems to
be lost but he's heading in the right
direction okay you bounce around
culturally to go from the bay area of
California that then shoot over to
England in the most historic College in
some kind of tie with Harvard I guess
are you feeling like an outsider
observing all these places are you
getting infected by them I didn't ever
feel like an outsider I just did my work
I landed up at Stanford and the next
morning I was in my closes I knocked on
Paul Berg's door Paul Berg was a
preeminent scientist he had won by then
the Nobel Prize for discovering recommon
and DNA for basically an experiment that
you think is obvious but it's extraord
arily nonobvious in the 1980s which is
can you take a piece of DNA from a
lizard and another piece of DNA from a
bacteria and Stitch them together and
put them back in the bacteria and will
the bacteria think it's this code I'm
going to read the code that was not
possible Paul found a method to take
these two pieces and Stitch them
together into one single molecule and
that molecule was called recombinant DNA
so I think about a week or two when I
was at Stanford I went and knocked on
his door and I said listen Paul I'm I
didn't say listen
Paul Paul's a very close friend now so I
can say this with some degree of tarity
but I went to Paul I said Dr Berg I'm
very interested in this kind of work
that you're doing can I be in your lab
and if I remember correctly Paul said
okay let me ask you three questions in
biology and I answered them and he said
okay you seem to know enough to be able
to work in the lab so I spent my three
to four years at Stanford sort of
immersed in that lab I learned biology
biochemistry Immunology I learned how to
write about science then I was given a
road scholarship and went to work with
Alan Townsen and Alan was a very very
distinguished immunologist and so I
worked on virology and Immunology there
so I don't think I felt like an Insider
or an outsider I the questions didn't
occur to me and in fact to be totally
honest I don't even think that this kind
of idea of Insider Outsider existed in
the same form that it does for our
children it emerged out of the 80s it
emerged out of a certain sense of
reclaiming identity what does it mean to
be inside who's inside who's outside I
think it came out of that time but I'm
not sure it existed in that time in the
same way I'm going to argue against that
because I think we would agree
anthropologically speaking we've had
this strong sense of us and them since
the beginning since we've been a homant
I think because you were in such a
esoteric finite amount of people that
clearly you were the US so in that way I
could imagine not feeling any us and
them because you are already among the
tiniest sliver of people who this topic
fascinates fair enough the only thing I
would say is I do think that much of
what we understand today about identity
and its importance and how much it
shapes us etc etc we're debating that
were beginning or questions that were
beginning to simmer more acutely in
the80s and both Stanford and Oxford
happened to be near towns where these
questions of identity became very
important Stanford being near San
Francisco where again to remind
ourselves medically speaking it was in
the mid of the AIDS Rampage and Oxford
being near London where you know the
question of who you are whether you're
Indian particularly Bangladeshi African
migrated to London were also questions
that were beginning to sort of resonate
through that from which came books like
Zade Smith's white teeth and Monica
Ali's bricklane so both these places
were proximal to questions of identity
but they were you know 50 mi from them
in some sense you could watch from a
distance and maybe that's what I meant
it was there I could sense it but it
wasn't the chief place in my brain yeah
wow the AIDS thing is really really
unique in that you'd have to take away
from that that identity was an enormous
component in just how the country
responded to what was a very brutal
illness and any other brutal illness of
that caliber would have been rallied
around and fought against and yet
because it only seemed to affect a
certain group of people the response was
very different than the response of
other previous diseases yes absolutely
and Randy schilz book and the band
played on details how much of AIDS was
ignored by sort of mainstream medicine
until people they started clamoring
around it and then subsequently Larry
Kramer wrote about it and others have
written about it but what no one had
done before is what schilz did so one
question when you write a book is how do
you organize a book do you organize it
chronologically is it a series of
personalities is it a series of short
stories that mingle with each other is
there some more sort of modern or even
postmodern way of organizing a book
schilz his book was organized as a kind
of play bypl so the chapter would begin
April 21st
1982 7 p.m. and then he would tell you a
little story about what happened at 700
p.m. and it was so thrilling to read it
reads like a thriller it's like a police
timeline and that's how he brought
people into it he was like this is what
didn't happen here was a meeting that
could have happened and maybe someone
discussed the fact that there was an
immunological collapse going on among
certain men and people who had blood
transfusions and they moved on and it
was not until many things happened that
you ultimately got the response that was
needed for what became a pandemic we're
living through one right now actually
like as you're talking about it it makes
me think of the crack epidemic of the
80s and 90s in the response it was
criminality it was a moral shortcoming
and now the opioid epidemic is an
epidemic even that word it's an epidemic
it's a Health crisis now that it's
killing white kids now the whole lens of
addiction has shifted it's kind of
similar it's very similar in some ways
although of course the difference with
the opioid epidemic is that it is now
becoming clear and clear that it was
incited by very particular forces that
wanted to sell opioids as drugs they
paid off people and let me tell you as
an oncologist I feel the pain in the
opposite direction because opioids are
very strong drugs and very useful drugs
and now I feel curtailed in my ability
to prescribe them to patients who need
them the most but there's an equal and
opposite crisis in the fact that I can't
prescribe these absolutely essential
drugs to people who really really need
them I've had a father and a stepfather
both died of cancer your specialty and
yes it seems that you have to declare
I'm going into hospice to get the full
car
of help but prior to that they're not
going to possibly prescribe you what the
person might need to be comfortable is
that accurate it's just that the bar has
risen it means filling out more forms it
means doing a lot more than we were
doing you know let's say 10 years or 20
years ago and in order to become an
oncologist you first have to train an
internal medicine and one of my toughest
patients that I had ever encountered was
a Frank opioid ad addict and would come
into the hospital saying I have a
headache now she would come to the
emergency room and they would say you
know rate it between 1 and 10 and she
would say 40
yeah this was 15 20 years ago in the end
she would leave the hospital with five
or six or seven per cassettes and then 5
days later this pattern would recur and
I sent her to specialist I hospitalized
her to check but there's no objective
test for a headache so because pain
lacks an objective test because there is
no pain echocardiogram or pain CAT scan
I think the Pharma companies that were
particularly pernicious in this epidemic
took advantage of that sort of hole and
started asking doctors to prescribe
opioids and then obviously this
escalated and became what it is today
yeah okay in addition to being
incredibly qualified in many ways you
have patients you run a research lab
you're like incredibly literarily
talented your book the one that you won
the piter for the Emperor of all
maladies a biography of cancer is so
impossibly beautifully written I have a
curiosity were you putting time into
writing commensurate with all this time
you were putting into learning about
biology my life back then was split up
and still is very split up I do several
things and I do them at the same time I
enjoy it so today for inance I was in
the lab all morning looking at gels and
then looking at cells 3 4 hours then I
came back to my desk I wrote a piece for
a magazine then I will do this then I
will go back and edit a paper that
someone wrote that needs some extra work
in it I'll try to think of an experiment
and then I'll have dinner and spend some
time with the kids and my wife I don't
structure my days around oh you know it
has to be two hours of writing three
hours of this it's just very much sort
of responding to what the needs are for
that particular day I didn't ask the
question correctly I don't mean
schedule-wise I mean did you write
letters to people as a kid did you write
short stories I can't imagine that you
thought okay I finally have all this
information I'm going to sit down and
write emperor of all maladies and that's
how you wrote what I did do and I always
tell people this who ask about sort of
writing I read a lot and I think you
can't be a writer if you don't read and
when you read you've got to read
diversely you can't can't say I'm going
to write a book about cancer in the
manner of the emper maladies and say I'm
only going to read science writing you
have to read diversely because people
have very different ways of talking and
thinking and all of that comes into our
idea of how to write a book the fact
that a book happens to be about the
cosmos Brian Green's book about the
universe or Richard rhod's making of the
atomic bomb or a great book of
philosophy all of it it has to be read
and digested and that's what makes I
think a good writer it makes you able to
write in a way that you couldn't write
before but within that you have a
writer's voice you seem to have found
yours quite quickly you have this weird
layer of Noir over what you write in my
opinion there's this very romantic like
20s black and white shimmery Nitro in
the print I can see the filter it's
going through and it's very consistent
it's a lovely description thank you like
I can see why Ken Burns was like oh I
want to make a dock about both the books
you've written because I can see it as
I'm reading Emperor for sure I know what
the film stock should look like I know
what the lighting should be like like
it's just there well it has that
Thriller quality you were talking about
earlier the police timeline it feels
like a narrative when I write I try to
think of a cinematic quality in the
writing I love watching films but I have
a very particular kind of film that I
like and they all come from the 40s and
50s where lighting was very important so
tarkovski is a big favorite and then
much later kislowski so I don't actively
sit down and say I'm going to write a
novel that sounds like a novel that
tarkovski would have liked you know
Andre rublev or something I sit down and
say there has to be a quality in the
writing so that you feel the place that
you're in even the most minimal thing
should have atmosphere in it I'm going
to add to the tonal thing because the
structure of your books and it is clear
in the song of the cell you are telling
us a history at all times so we're going
through many different anecdotal
scenarios and what has to stay clean
through that for it to be cohesive again
I would analogize it to making a movie
you might have a funny scene you might
have a breakup scene you might have a
death scene but there has to be a visual
and a tonal cohesiveness through all the
different elements and I think that
you're dropping down into all these
different time periods but that tonal
point of view of you as a writer is what
makes them all consistent and cohesive
well song of the cell is my fourth book
but really a third in the trilogy of
books Emperor the Gene and then now the
song of the cell in non-fiction writing
there's a very old phrase which is
chronology is your best friend makes
life much easier I started writing song
of the cell and realized that I couldn't
use chronology because it would have
been incred boring to read and not
atmospheric and I would not know what to
do with chronology you know he
discovered this she then found that cell
so the song of the cell is organized
very very differently so there's a
Prelude which is historical but then
each chapter acquires the personality of
a cell and I didn't realize it but as I
was going through it the song of a cell
makes a very controversial but I think
important Claim about knowledge a
reviewer recently sort of reminded me of
this the iconography of life for the
last 10 years has been DNA the lovely
thing about DNA is it has a very defined
structure it'll look the same whether
it's here or in the moon or if we find
it in some ectoplasmic alien that comes
from another planet if that ectoplasmic
alien has DNA it will look like DNA the
same DNA that you and I have and if Paul
Berg had his brothers he would Stitch
those two pieces together and produce a
piece of DNA which would be half alien
and a half human and it would still look
like DNA and that's been an incredibly
unifying Philosophy for science the cell
is just the opposite because it doesn't
exemplify uniformity but it exemplifies
the enormous diversity that comes out of
that molecule now DNA itself that
molecule is lifeless it's a code but a
cell is the deciphering of that code
into something that emerges out of that
code and your neuron on and your liver
cell and your white blood cell all of
which contain the same code look
completely different from each other
behave completely differently from each
other occupy completely different spaces
and have completely different functions
and so the epistemological claim in the
song of the cell is that maybe we should
be moving from the century of the gene
to the century of the cell the gene or
DNA has become so iconographically
identified IED with the great
unification of biology that now we're
finding out that beyond that great
unification lies a layer of that
commonality becoming extraordinarily
diverse acquiring extraordinarily
different functions and that is where we
should be paying a lot of attention
because that is the Locust as the book
claims of life and it is a locus of
disease you know the last chapter is
going to this in great detail it's so
satisfying to have a single molecule
that looks like a single molecule but if
someone says to me draw a picture of a
cell I'd say well what cell a neuron it
looks completely different from a skin
cell but knowing that if I had to be a
physician or if I had to do something
about the body yes of course I can alter
genes But ultimately everything that
comes to life life's basic unit is not
the iconographic picture of that great
unifying molecule but life's basic unit
is the cell and it's the cell that we
should understand and figure out if we
want to figure out both normaly in life
and disease that's sort of the punchline
that's hidden behind the book and that's
why this book couldn't be organized
chronologically it's not a pathway of
Discovery it's like a million Starbursts
and you figure out each of these
individual functional properties of a
cell how a neuron is different from a
white blood cell each of these is its
own story and that's why the book is
divided up in this manner in which every
single chapter acquires the functional
property of a c do that make sense yeah
yeah yeah I do want to though put in a
layer so that people who aren't familiar
with the cell it is in your preface
which is so hook and Luen Haw in the
late 1600s they're looking through these
microscopes that they have created
themselves they're not the ones we get
to use there's other people who' have
done it but they start realizing oh my
gosh all living things are really made
up of this is completely proprietary at
that time right we're just looking at
bodies in front of us animals plants at
best they're dissecting some stuff they
see organs oh there's stuff inside these
bodies but this is the first time that
they're going oh no everything we're
looking at is made up of these cells and
every single living thing has these
cells that's like a complete Paradigm
Shift Luen Hawk and hook find cells
they're very interesting exciting
characters but they don't have the
wherewithal to make the most audacious
claim of all and it's not until another
1050 odd years before two other
scientists Schwan and schleiden who are
very close their colleagues one studying
animals one studying plants who make the
claim that you're making that everything
all life is made out of cells I guess
they were just the first to name it a
cell correct right God and I don't want
to jump to the end really but we all
grew up with that understanding that we
are an aggregate of all these cells that
all these cells are working in concert
that they come together to make this
enormous thing that appears to be its
own individual thing but really it's
made up of billions and billions of
cells I think that is a really profound
thing for people to have recognized
absolutely and at the time it was very
controversial lots of people thought
that this is all nonsense how could you
possibly imagine that when you go down
right at the microscopic level that the
microscopic units that build the brain
and the heart are basically similar or
the same coming back to the last piece
of conversation we just had they don't
even look similar and yet functionally
metabolically biochemically if you go
really into the heart of it they are the
same thing they are two manifestations
of a unit and that unit is a cell so it
was a really really bold claim and at
that point of time you can imagine lots
of Skeptics saying this is complete
nonsense well you're proposing
contradictory things which is our bodies
are made up of these self-contained
individual items that make one thing or
a whole so they seem just logically
completely counter to one another and
that's the leap you're asking at the end
of the book to make which is between
atomism and holism right that it has to
be one thing or another that either this
is one cohesive blob or that there's
individual things how could they
possibly be working in concert with the
rest of the individual things and
creating this body is very hard to
comprehend still it's wild that all the
cells are on their own surviving on
their own and self-regulating and yet
they are a web that creates this greater
thing and I think that's what's very
profound about organisms or bodies that
you have a whole system whose job is to
make sure that you don't get invaded by
pathogens you have a whole system to
make sure that the salt in your body
doesn't exceed some limit you have a
brain that is allowing us to have this
conversation now if everything were put
into the same unit and made to be the
same if everything was atomistic
everything looked like each other and
was like each other functioned like each
other then you wouldn't have all the
things that we can do like walk and talk
and
defend ourselves against Invaders and
predators and also make pasta and watch
a film and make a film write a book all
of these things now what's amazing about
it is that these things when they work
well they work as a Cooperative assembly
like a parliament and another thing that
the book talks about is that over and
over again in laboratory experiments in
genetic experiments Etc scientists have
found that this this kind of assembly of
various parts cells carries an
evolutionary Advantage because Evolution
over and over again selected for
multicellular organisms even though
single cell organisms like bacteria are
extraordinarily successful they live in
all sorts of places they're living in
our bodies they're living between our
teeth but somehow in terms of natural
selection this kind of Cooperative
assembly with functional specialization
your immune system
defending our body against predators
your brain acting as a master
coordinator of your actions and your
thoughts your muscles moving dynamically
in space so that you can move yourself
in space all of this corative assembly
was of great evolutionary Advantage so
much so that people believe that these
assemblies evolved separately and
independently multiple times in other
words multiple times during Evolution
there was a leap from single celled
existence to multicellular existence
because somehow or the other and we have
theories about these now but they're
theories you can't wind the clock back
but somehow the this assembly this idea
of the song of the cell the fact that
these things are singing together and
there is not just sort of one Note
coming out and another note coming out
but they're singing together like an
assembly somehow or the other creates an
incredible evolutionary advantage and
you could say that is what human beings
are we lie on top of a certain chain of
evolution because these assemblies work
yeah there had to be many iterations
that worked for some time and then when
one of the cells in the system started
malfunctioning the entire thing grenaded
right I mean the fact that it has the
stability to also deal with many of the
cells malfunctioning around it in still
work as its own crazy mystery the book
has a huge application to by looking at
ourselves through the lens of the cell
that it's going to lead us in a lot of
directions hopefully with medicine and
you point out that all these things hip
fracture heart attack Alzheimer's AIDS
cancer arthritis they're all the results
of systems of cells functioning
abnormally at the heart of it that's
what's going on is that in this perfect
cohesion in the system some of them
start functioning abnormally and that's
the root of all of our elments
[Music]
stay tuned for more armchair expert if
you
dare I'm going back to a character who
threads the book Rudolph verow the
pathologist who makes two very simple
but two very radical statements the
first one is that normal physiology is
the consequence of cells functioning
normally seems like a very simple
statement
but you know we just unpacked it it's
flip it's obverse is also true that
abnormal physiology all disease verow
claims is cellular disease if you want
to understand any disease any illness
you have to understand its cellular
basis now if you really stretch that
point think about neuros psychiatric
diseases what verka was saying that even
depression and schizophrenia to really
understand those diseases and to be able
to treat and potentially cure them what
you need to understand is the abnormal
cellular physiology in those diseases
he's saying that I'm not denying the
fact that the environment could have
something to do with it but he's saying
that the final common answer in order to
have the disease must be that some cell
in your body is not functioning the way
it's supposed to function it seems like
a very sort of blasé statement okay all
diseases are cellular diseases but when
you really begin to think about it you
begin to think gosh that really
reorients the way I think about medicine
reorients the way I think about humans
reorient the way I think about making
new humans questions about AI
intelligence normaly abnormaly
disability all of this stuff all of a
sudden you start thinking about it in a
new kind of way and that I think is the
message of the song of the cell well
this ties into the Ted Talk you did in
2015 which is you can both acknowledge
that every single element at its core is
a cellular issue but then we can also
have a new way of looking at what
creates that cellular health or its
functionality and so in your Ted Talk
which is great is you say we've been
trapped kind of in a model or a paradigm
for about a hundred years once we
discovered antibiotics our system became
really just three parts have a disease
take a pill kill something that's been
the model that we've studied everything
that we've researched everything how
we've treated everything and that your
model when looking at the cell might be
actually done in Reverse can you just
tell us how the future of medicine will
be a flipping of that yeah the model
will be start from find the cell that's
behaving abnormally find the environment
or the circumstances that are making the
cell behave abnormally and that would be
the immediate environment of the cell
and ultimately find the macro
environment of the cell that is making
the person the organism behave abnormal
so there would be something like cell
organ organism environment rather than
building down you build up a theory of
disease you build up a theory of
abnormality and this is something that
my lab does in some ways there are
extremely strong genetic tools these
days and you can analyze the world with
very strong genetic tools you can
sequence millions billions of genes all
of which have been extraordinarily
helpful but what I'm proposing in this
book and have proposed is that that
doesn't account for the emergent
properties of the cell you can't read
the morse code of the human genome and
say in this Morse code lies the anatomy
of a brain that can write a symphony you
cannot go from one to the other yeah and
that's an incredible puzzle that's the
puzzle of biology you cannot read the
morse code a CG of the human genome and
from that based on pure principles alone
you cannot predict that therein lies the
code to build a kidney you won't know
what that kidney does or what that
kidney looks like or what it even
behaves like it just isn't there however
you can look at a kidney and its cells
and their function and begin to figure
out what it does how it does it what the
physiology is and how it basically
regulates salt and water in your body so
the book makes the claim that we need to
make a step now moving beyond this very
atomistic which is in the case of
biology a genetic understanding of
humans and our bodies to a cellular
understanding and not just one cell but
the parliament of cells how one cell
talks to another how one cell behaves
with another and until we understand
that we'll understand simple genetic
diseases but we won't understand real
complex diseases and some of which we
talked about well you give this example
of uh scientist walking through the
forest with an assistant that's out to
help him he's a local and as the
scientist is walking with this guy he's
discovering that the local guy knows
every single plant species and initially
he's really really impressed and shocked
by that and he's commending the guy on
it but the guy is really distraught
because he although knows every single
species in there he laments the fact
that he doesn't really know anything cuz
he doesn't understand the song of them
but as you say what he really means is
he doesn't understand the
interconnectedness of them he doesn't
understand how they're communicating he
doesn't understand how they're playing
off of one another and forming this much
larger ecosystem they're walking through
exactly here's where I myself struggle
we just interviewed a guy that was
talking about a farmer in England who
has spent the last 25 years on a single
piece of land that was follow and he's
been trying to get it to harvest and
he's discovered all of this stuff about
the different fungi that has to grow in
the soil around the roots and then he
also found that of these I forget what
he said 20,000 whatever there's only
four that grow on the roots and they
happen to be the four that in our
microbiome so for this guy trying to
resurrect a farm discovering that you
could look at the root for the rest of
his life but the more he focuses out and
realizes that the whole thing grows in
combination with all these other things
the picture just keeps getting bigger
and bigger and more complex now here's
the thing I struggle with like I can
acknowledge that there are cells in my
body I can go even smaller I can say
there's electrons there's protons okay
then there's atoms now there's these
cells I get it these cells are somehow
working together and they're in my body
and they formed organs and bones and I
am this thing I stop at me okay so I'm
this individual creature I'm talking to
you but it is really hard for me to make
the leap that the scaling up keeps
continuing and that I'm a part of all
the other animals around me and the
other flora and fauna that's a hard leap
do you think that's hard for everyone I
think that's the hardest leap and I
think we're not there yet and this goes
back to the Ted talk but in really order
to understand us and by us I mean human
beings in general I think we need to
slowly start making those leaps but
there's a leap before that leap finding
the interconnectedness of cells so I'm
obsessed with moss I love growing moss
and Moss is a very peculiar creature
because if you try to grow moss it will
not grow it's a little bit like a child
if you try to tell a child to go left he
or she will go right and so if you try
to make moss grow it won't grow and
exactly when you're looking away and
places that you don't want Moss to grow
it'll Thrive and flourish and this is
for my own garden question I've been
trying to solve for a long time is why
why is it that I put buttermilk and
whatever else Moss experts tell you and
the mossle die in like 3 days whereas in
places where I don't it thrives and bit
by bit following advice from other
people I've started piecing things
together so someone said plant oak
saplings because Oak saplings have a
symbiotic relationship with moss and
they allow the Moss to grow and sure
enough I planted some Oak saplings and
the Moss started growing around them and
so Bit by Bit by Bit by Bit this whole
holistic idea of the human body like
moss we'll have to solve that's the
secret to understanding ourselves but
we're not there yet we're actually one
step still behind and the one step still
behind is before we understand the song
of the ecosystem we have to understand
the song of the cell which is to figure
out just by yourself not in relationship
with the large environment that you're
living in how one piece is talking to
another piece and that's what our lab
has started to do we've started to
explore things like how does metabolism
affect cancer that's one of the biggest
projects that we have another project is
how does a neighboring cell affect a
cancer cell how does the cancer create a
home for itself so that's another song
It's a malignant song yeah how does bone
sustain itself how do bones grow when
you have a fracture how do they repair
themselves when you get a bone marot
transplant how do all the cells know to
start growing and repopulate your blood
system and then why is it that you know
everyone with bone Mar transplant
doesn't have cancer and they you know
explode with blood because they know how
to stop growing and because they're
sending signals to each other to start
and stop growing so that's the
intermediate level that we're still
struggling to understand will slowly
crack that open and then comes your
question which is how does this organism
then fit into the bigger environment
don't we think we know how cells
communicate we think they're talking
chemically yeah we know that they're
talking chemically we also know they're
talking physically in the sense that you
know there are now lots and lots of
experiments that show that there's
physics behind this too in the sense
that when they touch each other their
forces their share forces we know that
that's a general idea we need to know
exactly what chemical under what
circumstances what physical
circumstances Etc in order to cure
diseases and can we ask too like who's
orchestrating it that's my great
curiosity it's like even if you find the
mechanism by which they're all
communicating with one another like the
Beehive or something where's the master
plan coming from the DNA but is that
complete you could say it's coming from
DNA but the master plan is to some
extent that when cells accumulate with
each other they form a system that has
evolutionary Advantage it's a natural
selection process cells learn to
communicate with each other not because
there's a brain behind it or because
there's God sitting there saying you've
got to talk to him or her yeah yeah it's
because the only way the organism could
survive was if one white cell talked to
another white cell in an organism where
two white cells could communicate with
each other that organism is a much
better defended organism against a
pathogen and Will Survive so the master
plan really is the playing out of
evolution by natural selection and
there's no other master plan and that's
what's amazing about it it's a
Distributive plan like no one said that
this is how you have to behave but
that's how s behave right and so that
General principle is known but the
details are very important now a cancer
cell which is metastasized to your bone
what exactly is it doing to make a home
for itself when I say exactly I mean
what chemical is it secreting so that
the bone thinks that it's perfectly fine
to have a breast cancer cell sitting
inside bone that's not normal why would
your lung cells say oh okay it's
perfectly fine this morning for a breast
cancer cell to come and in the lung why
would it say that yeah yeah and why does
the spleen not ever say it's okay this
question comes to us from the 1890s the
spleen and the liver are the same size
the spleen almost never has metastases
the liver is one of the most frequent
sites of metastases why and they're next
to each other so somehow or the other
there's something in the spleen or
something about the cells of the spleen
that won't allow or won't be permissive
to a breast cancer cell coming and
setting up shop there where there's
something in the liver which says come
be my guest why the answer has to be
that the pancreatic cancer cell makes
some factor a chemical factor which then
makes it a permissive cell it becomes
what the biologist rusan mov calls a
client cell it obtains a client
permission to live inside the liver and
what's more is that it also allows that
cell not to be scanned by the immune
system
right does it become invisible or a
recognized client we now know that some
of them become invisible invisible in
the sense that the immune system thinks
of those cells as part of the normal
repertoire of that organ since it
doesn't attack the organ it doesn't
attack the cancer cell that's resident
in the organ but now we've discovered
more so not only does the cell make this
cloak of invisibility around itself it
also makes a house of invisibility
around itself so in other words it
attracts other cells to form a kind of
shell around it but what we need to know
if we want to solve all these problems
is how is it making that camouflage what
chemical it's not enough to say a
chemical we need to know exactly what
chemical can that chemical be
inactivated can that chemical be
targeted this is what my lab has taken
on so I often say I missed the genomic
and genetic Revolution it passed by me
and in some ways I'm thankful for it
because genomics and genetic IC is very
seductive you can sequence the morse
code but if you read the morse code you
cannot from that code understand exactly
the questions that I asked you nothing
in Reading human DNA will tell you that
a spleen is not a sight of metastases
while the liver is a frequent side of
metastases you can read The genome
backwards upwards sideways and nothing
will tell you why this fact is true you
have to look at the cells you have to
look at cell biology Is it feasible that
in a 100 million years we will evolve
for every organ to behave like the
spleen yes I think it's feasible I
suspect that there will be some common
themes and they're already becoming
clear there's some common themes that
allow metastatic cancer cells to set up
shop in various organs the factors that
they use to set up shop are actually not
infinite they're finite and in fact many
of them are shared between organs so I
think it is possible that in the future
we'd have some kind of way of preventing
that we just have to figure out if you
can do it in a manner that doesn't have
toxicity in the entire body we would
have to intervene though right like for
it to happen on an evolutionary scale
that's why cancer is so present is that
you can reproduce long before you ever
deal with cancer that's what makes it so
lethal is you're getting it in your 40s
50s 60s you've already passed your genes
on so for there to be any mutation that
would cure you from that it's not going
to make you more advantageous to other
people that don't have the gene because
everyone's going to reproduce before
cancer age mostly yeah that's of course
a big conundrum most diseases that
happen after reproductive age it's
difficult for natural selection to work
on those diseases because you've already
reproduced unless they're genetically
passed down and cancer although it's a
genetic disease it's a disease that
happens in older age typically not
always but it happens because something
changes the genes a copying error or a
carcinogen changes the code but natural
selection can't act on that because you
haven't passed that code down to your
children your children have gotten the
intact code now that's not completely
true you and I know that there are some
familial cancers where the genes are
passed down and in those cases if you
get the cancer early enough in your life
there's adverse selection against that
and that's why most cancers are not
acted upon by standard natural selection
now there are people who study biology
and evolution and talk about sort of kin
selection in the sense that you need
families and you need a protective
environment etc etc there is a way for
natural selection to act Beyond
reproductive age but that's a different
story it's somewhat a minor story okay I
just want to comment on one thing and
then I want to try to ins snare you in
something you probably don't want to
talk about but really quickly the fact
that the genomic Revolution passed you
by could be this huge asset to you right
because just like crisper and these
other Technologies and what we did with
the covid RNA vaccine that happened as a
result of a great scientists being
forced out of the DNA exploration having
to focus on RNA which no one wanted to
study right RNA has been fascinating to
scientists for a long time it's harder
to study for various reasons its biology
is more complex every cell doesn't have
the same RNA bar a few sperm and egg
cells and your immune cells which are
slightly different from each other and
some mutations that occur in individual
cells so with those exceptions aside for
the most part every cell in your body
has the same DNA and so it's much easier
to study that every cell in your body on
the other hand does not have the same
RNA RNA is made from DNA it's the soft
copy and your brain cell has a
completely different set of RNA
molecules than your liver cell and so
RNA has been a great problem to study
studying it has won dozens of Nobel
prizes has had really quite impact on
human biology and you're absolutely
right there were lots of people in that
time studying DNA and very few people
studying RNA and in fact it's the study
of RNA that led to the creation of the
new vaccines okay I got to say one more
time for anyone who's not normally drawn
to a scientific book or a book on
biology I have to say that your writing
really transcends the topic I've
recommended the emperor to a bunch of
people that I don't have a ton of
interest in it and everyone found it to
be that same weird romantic historic
Noir experience there's something really
broadly appealing about the way you
write and I think everyone would really
enjoy the song of the cell and I think
it ask some bigger questions which is
we're so caught up in the pieces and not
necessarily the hole that everything
adds up to we're kind of missing a lot
because of that myopic view of
everything perfectly right I just want
to ask you and again you probably didn't
want to talk about this but I'm reading
a book called behave right now I don't
know if you've heard of it but it's
fantastic I have I can't believe how
much I love it but of course in it it's
going through how there's kind of a
Resurgence in lamaran inheritance when
you're in your entry biology class and
they're teaching you Evolution the wrong
theory was that a giraffe could stretch
its neck and make its neck longer pass
it onto its kids he became a punchline
Lark now as we learn a lot more about
all the different things that are
reading the DNA transferring turning
genes on turning them off it seems much
more complicated in Reading behave I'm
like could you just say that DNA is
every single ingredient in a pantry
every single food product that could
ever exist and that really it takes a
chef to then make you a dish with all
these ingredients like between the RNA
and epigenome turning on and turning off
jeans it just seems like maybe an
endless pantry and that there's great
variability with all these ingredients
and that perhaps maybe some co- view of
it could exist I'm wondering if from
when you wrote your paper in the New
Yorker or in 2016 you got some backlash
if even from 2016 to 2022 has it inch
closer to maybe a view of evolution that
maybe involves both elements the 2016
paper first of all was an extract from a
massive book yes the Gene and standard
mechanisms of Gene regulation there are
four chapters on it the extract happened
to be from a chapter which talks about
what I would call non-standard or newer
Ways by which we are exploring the way
genes are regulated and a certain group
of scientists who are very touchy about
standard ways of Gene regulation started
saying no no no no this is all new of
course it's new that's why it's in the
New
Yorker if it was a standard textbook
explanation it wouldn't be now over time
I think people are realizing that
there's more to Gene regulation than we
originally knew because the code is the
code right there's a master code that
code has to be regulated so that your
neuron doesn't have the same RNA and
proteins than your white blood cell the
standard model which is a very classical
model and is absolutely correct is that
there are factors called transcription
factors Master Regulators you can call
them whatever you want they turn genes
on and off absolutely correct discovered
by jaob and mono in the 1950s and 60s
and elaborated on extensively what's
interesting is that standard model now
is being refined and we are realizing
that there are more and more elements to
that standard model that need to be
added and this indignance about not
thinking that there are more things that
need to be added is just to me absurd
I'll give you some classical examples
the cancer that I studied acute
myogenous leukemia AML the most common
mutations are mutations in the very
genes that don't fit into the standard
model in other words these are genes
that attach chemical signals to DNA not
Transcription factors here's a totally
disregulated cell whose genome has been
totally disregulated typically not
always does not have alterations or the
alterations are rare in those very
factors that you know are considered the
classical ways that genes are regulated
and I cannot seem to convince people
that we need to think a little bit more
deeply about genetic regulation it's
more complex now the second part of the
question that you ask is about lamaran
Evolution the article was very clear
there are some examples in smaller
animals of intergenerational lamaran
evolution but those examples are few and
far between we know the mechanisms of
some of them whether they last across
multiple Generations is a question mark
but also this is the strange thing about
the blogosphere someone will pick up
something from the blog and say you know
SAR Muki is a proponent of lamaran
evolution whereas in fact I'm exactly
the opposite and can I be clear I don't
believe in Lamar in that you can stretch
your neck and pass it on I guess the
component of it that they're probably
wrongly labeling lamaran seems to be
your environment is in the mix it's not
just your genes that you passed down you
might have an enormous spectrum of
outcomes phenotypical spectrum of
outcomes based on your DNA that the
environment can actually go Inward and
activate yes and there are some examples
and there increasing numbers of examples
of that mostly in smaller animals I
don't think that there's been any
definitive example in humans so the
question is can this happen in humans
there has been a lot of controversy
about it I've acknowledged the
controversy the book the article
everything I've written talks about this
as speculative controversial and
unlikely to have evidence in humans I
can't say any more than that yeah yeah
but you're absolutely right the
environment impinges on genetic
regulation the way we understand Gene
regulation is incomplete still we need a
lot more understanding and the classical
model of Gene regulation in which
factors attach themselves to the genome
activate certain genes and then there's
a positive feedback of these works but
it doesn't work completely it doesn't
explain certain things you have to
invoke some different ways of Gene
regulation and the fact that people
don't accept that is absurd it's looking
away from the problem well I think it
gets down to the very most fundamental
flaw we all humans cannot resist which
is we want a definitive statement we're
so uncomfortable if we don't have a
definitive statement either Newtonian
physics works oh no oh it doesn't work
in this situation oh no now we need to
incorporate there's such discomfort with
the notion that multiple things may be
working at once and not at all times and
sometimes at other times but I think
when we get anchored into these binary I
just feel like you're bound to miss so
much it's like confirmation bias you
can't see the contradictory facts
because you're now just trying to defend
Newtonian physics or that nothing goes
faster than the speed of light or any
one of these things it's just funny to
me that it feels present in biology as
it is in politics and everywhere else
all absolutely correct I mean I think
that Gene environment intera ctions are
not fully understood yet Gene regulation
is not fully understood yet there's a
group of what I would call Old School
classical biologists who believe that
they had solved the problem then dusted
their hands off and indeed they had
solved the most major part of the
problem which is yes it's absolutely
true that the the reason your neuron is
a neuron or your nerve cell is a nerve
cell and your white cell is a white cell
is because there are factors in it there
proteins in those cells that bind to DNA
activate or repress certain other genes
and thereby make certain proteins
expressed in the nerve cell and not in
the white blood cell that's absolutely
true but that explanation of Gene
regulation is still incomplete it does
not explain certain things that we're
finding out about cancer for instance it
doesn't explain certain things that
we're finding out about Gene environment
interactions it does not explain certain
things about how some of these signals
can maintain their permanence when the
divides it did not explain why calico
cats are calico they have patches of
different colors in their skin so there
were things about the classical model
which is absolutely correct but does not
fully capture the complexities of Gene
environment interactions and I wish
someone would just be able to say that
without being smacked on the head by old
school classical biologists because
there have been dozens hundred hundreds
thousands of papers now written about
new forms of Gene regulation there have
been prizes including at least one Nobel
Prize awarded for these new findings
about Gene regulation and there will be
many more Nobel prizes two breakthrough
prizes awarded for this multiple major
Papers written about all of this and
it's as if this entire field of
non-classical Gene regulation did not
exist and then the defense is oh you're
being lamaran right cuz we know that's
wrong if I hang that on you then debate
over and I keep saying no no you don't
understand you can think about Gene
regulation without being a lamaran so
it's not like I'm digging up his grave
and bringing up his ghost and saying oh
gosh you know Lamar was right and Darwin
was wrong how many times do I have to
say that no Darwin's clearly right and
some other people might be right not
Lamar per se but some other people might
be right in addition exactly well I just
want to thank you besides your
incredible gift for writing which again
I hope everyone experiences in their
life it's so beautiful and tragic and
inspiring additionally I would say I
love you as a disruptor someone who's
not afraid to flip a model on its head
to use metaphor in a way that helps us
break out of these patterns I think
anyone who's a catalyst for always
challenging the models we're stuck in is
a wonderful Force for good and I dig you
and you do look like the Kick-Ass
scientist from Jurassic Park you're a
creative [__] let's put it that
way you're an artistic biologist and
it's really cool I love your podcast so
Kudos back to both you guys I want
everyone to buy and read the song of the
cell and exploration of medicine and the
new human out October 25th be well thank
you so much for your time I know it's
valuable I hope I get to see you again
in person I'm going to pick up my style
game
if I know that's eminent cuz I want to
also be compared to something while
we're
[Laughter]
[Music]
together stay tuned for more armchair
expert if you
dare and now my favorite part of the
show The fact check with my soulmate
Monica
[Music]
padman okay
well we have a special
guest
hi welcome to the show Prairie Sooners
here I'm from New
Mexico Colorado Colorado
USA who is this one for Monty sedara
muker oh man straight intimidating did
you listen to it yes that's not what I
meant I know you edited them I didn't
know of you are there yet I don't know
of course you are to be by the time I do
this with you of course I wasn't saying
anything I just meant you did hear it I
was pretty critical after that one I was
not proud of my performance in that one
I remember being in a bad mood after
that why I try my hardest to maybe
condense what I think I understand about
their thing into like a simple analogy
or simple delivery of this thing and I
just didn't have those skills that day
is what I thought and then I was like I
think
I failed at that and then I think he
thinks I'm dumb that's what I thought at
the end of all of it how do you work
through that I can't work through
something I've done 15 years AG like I
feel like I did something yeah I had to
go yeah some of them you're not going to
think you nailed it and some you're
gonna and there'll be more yeah like I
get hung up on a cameo something as
simple as that mhm when I hit uplo I go
oh God and I'll think of it for three
days wow yes I will tell you it was good
and interesting and it didn't feel like
you weren't talking enough or you
weren't doing it felt like you were
doing the perfect amount well I also the
other reason I was upset was that I and
I apologized to you afterwards very
sweet was it was like there's only
handful of these and there's really no
predicting why I'm going to be insecure
I I can't I can't pinpoint it right like
I L it was more fine talking to Bill
Gates than I was him yeah there was
something about him that had same with
Jared Diamond like I got to be perfect
on my end and what he knows is so
dense that I've got to like figure I got
to crack this thing anyways all that
anxiety resulted in me not leaving the
door open at all for you to talk and I
knew it was happening and I was panicked
that I wasn't getting to this other
thing thing he we need to know about his
book whatever I was very stressed about
it and then in my worst way of dealing
with that is I just you know I'm trying
to control the whole thing and then
afterwards I I was very regretful that I
didn't leave more space for you know
what part of it was what we have certain
guests where I think we're I guess it's
almost like we're not entitled to their
time but you are entitled to their time
no I'm saying us this show doesn't
warrant their time that he's running
five companies and he's got a lab he's
breaking through the stuff and he's
writing these impossibly beautiful books
there's no way he wants to talk to
strangers for an hour sometimes I start
with that I think oh God this guy is
like what a waste of time this is yeah I
have that assessment occasionally about
guest and then I'm in a bad I'm off
kilter yeah I get that I get that yeah I
just felt like sometime like oh my God
I'm wasting this guy's time but we have
the time right so like yes whether or
not he wants to be there doesn't want to
be
there I guess I could choose to hear
that I'm not going to but I could choose
to hear that as we only have so much
time with this incredibly smart person
so it should
be oh my God I I I could have never
guessed that would be a takeaway of what
I was just saying really oh my God yeah
I accept it I can understand now that
you paint it that way how that's how
that sounds to you I wasn't saying that
in reference to me railroading and not
letting you in that wasn't a comment on
that I was
saying sometimes there's a handful of
people that I'm insecure going into
interviews with having nothing to do
with you yeah or even considering
whether I'm going to talk too much or
make space for you that aside yeah yeah
yeah there's a handful of people that
I'm too stressed out about it at when we
start it's like I gotta somehow talk
about his whole cancer book and the can
in the cell and all that stuff and and I
think he might be doing us a favor
through Adam Grant I don't know if he
wants to be here I mean yes and I'm just
going to get like it's not a favor it's
a it's not it's it's a great place to
promote book exactly exactly thank God
it only happens once in a blue moon but
but it does happen and he was one of
them and I thought I did a terrible job
and I also in my Panic did not leave any
room for you to talk which absolutely
sucked but when I say we don't deserve
their time I don't mean so therefore I
should take all the time at all I don't
think I just want you to not be worried
about it it w great yeah it w great it's
a good episode he's fascinating but for
the record I've never in my life made an
analysis this is worthy of Monica
participating or not my my worry would
be that it's not conscious but that's in
the mix but there are certain people
that I'm afraid if I don't lay out with
the architecture I've come up with two
hours before the interview if I don't
lay this road map out we'll never get to
the thing there are times I have that
Panic of course and I know it's trickier
with our experts obviously but it is
like what we learned episode six which
is don't be so married to the the thing
because our best episodes are what we
are not doing that different with
experts I will say but I still we got to
like we're talking about the work
they've kind of we are but we are
talking to our audience yeah it's a
tricky thing to navigate yeah like part
of me like Hillary Clinton that's easy
we know and love Hillary Clinton so if
we hear about the fact that bill won't
get rid of his Video Collection that to
me is an awesome detour yeah and I'm
delighted to let it go and let the show
be that yeah but if like Jared Diamond's
on and he Prov proved how civilizations
ended up being advantaged over others I
feel like my job is to lay that out not
let people know about Jared Diamond's
wife's Video Collection it feels
different that's interesting because to
me it doesn't to me like when people
comment on like the Obama episode or
something they're excited about the
stupid stuff not the stuff that
definitely Obama and definitely Hillary
Clinton because you already know what
they are right it's like when or
diamonds I don't think the average
person knows Jared diamond or has read
Guns Germs and Steel and my hope is that
we can distill that book do an episode
yeah that makes I have that book in the
trunk of my car right now funny enough
someone gave it to me yesterday or two
days ago what at a soccer game oh really
and said have you ever read this and I
said I know
wow and I thought in my head I know you
guys were talking about it and I was
like yeah this might be a toughy for me
thick one yeah oh that's Sim okay so
Aaron just arrived from his homeand
native native land native land Beverly
Hills Beverly Hills Beverly Hills
Michigan Beverly Hills Michigan this
morning 5-day trip slept like a baby
went right to sleep on the plane in my
pajamas so now update Aaron sleeps quiet
as a church mouse with his
machine right how do you think on the
airplane you sound I'm assuming really
loud according to
the people next to me did anyone say
like oh you're really no oh no but I
felt it you felt judged when you woke up
yeah the thing is about the machine it
doesn't yeah it doesn't cure you you
have to use
it when I decide not to it's exactly
like it was last year oh my God will you
tell really quick your your decision to
not take it a couple weekends ago this
is I never related more to a story oh no
okay okay I went on a retreat a weekend
retreat men's Retreat AA right so a
sober weekend in northern Michigan with
14 guys wow big nice cabin on the river
the whole thing so it's I had never done
this and um and when I was asked to do
it in the spring I was like When
September oh yeah Count Me In and um you
know just tell me when you need the
money and uh that's something I should
do as a sober person and then it crept
up and I was like oh [__] I'm like who's
going I don't know anybody except my one
friend and um it turned out I did know
some people but I didn't want to go I
finally decided to go wow I'm proud of
you I'm impressed but when I was packing
Ruthie said oh aren't you going to pack
your machine and I said no um because
I'm more than likely going to be turning
right
[Music]
around and I'm not going to
stay you're going to like make good on
your commitment and then also not go
yeah so I was like I need I need an out
and I don't I don't bring the
machine and I also turned down a ride
okay smart yep cuz you don't want to be
stuck n mhm and I didn't even want to go
let alone be stuck
yeah so I didn't bring the machine and I
was in a room with three of us three
guys and three little beds my buddy has
a
machine what a middle-aged camping trip
this year everyone's got their machine
the other half of the guys were on the
floor one cuz they're so [__] old
they couldn't get up the stairs oh wow
um so he had a machine I admitted to
what I was thinking um when I got there
I was like listen I'm going to be real
honest I had this feeling and I'm really
stubborn and really defiant and I'm
going to show you guys by not bringing
my machine and driving by myself and you
know just in my own head but you
admitted that out loud I did wow this is
the great dichotomy of Aaron wi this is
impressive I'm impressed Okay so the
third guy neither of us had met I told
him hey buddy I'm sorry but I should
have a machine too like and he's like
great like great understandably sure so
the first night happened in the books
and I got up and uh my friend said well
I can uh tell you this uh he listens to
podcast so he said uh Dex was right you
need a
machine and I think the the other guy
didn't get a wink of sleep that
night I had to go to the I went to the
store and bought him some earplugs for
the cuz I stayed the entire trip so then
he liked it and then it wasn't
everything you
feared you had a great time oh yeah oh
my God
spiritual meetings it was great it yeah
I fought it cont reaction they say doing
things you don't think you should do but
I can so relate to like packing and not
even as like like even a nice compromise
would have been like I'm going to bring
the machine and say I didn't right oh
[__] my wife told me she's stuck it in
there like there'll be all these ways
where you could get out of it but even
in your mind you're like no not bringing
this no and you know Ruthie she was like
do you not remember 6 months ago or
whatever however long it was you might
have a stroke and your sleep that's how
bad your apne is yeah so who are you
doing this to she can make punishing all
these people by killing yourself cuz
they invited you on a trip yeah um that
you were afraid you'd feel awkward at
yeah so you know I I don't know if I
have a you know want to be a martyr I I
don't know well I also get the feeling
it's like I can't stay the night like
you're like blocked yourself in like you
were like I I don't want to go and so
I'm not going and so I definitely am not
going because I'm not bringing the
machine I guess how far was it from the
house it was 3 and 1/2 hour drive okay I
was going to say maybe the next day go
get it well you would have had it ubered
like your Volo tie yeah you have St Uber
like your Prest
suspenders I should have I ended up
spending money because I left everything
else there I left Ruth's new headphones
under the bed I left um I left like
three I only brought four things I left
three of them and I had to have them
send it back to me so I did end up
paying for a delivery back to my house
wow yeah well I'm proud that you stayed
I'm sorry for that person because L we
forget I've experienced uh you without
your machine oh yeah and the camp in in
the RV that's a tough sitch and Monica's
very protective of you loves you and you
even angered her but I didn't think that
could happen but definitely you and
Laura when I woke up I felt the chill in
the air that
morning you didn't anger me but I was
OBS I I couldn't believe what I had
experienced I couldn't believe it some
people you just can't believe it yeah
yeah you got to kind of witness it it's
kind of like Eric
sneeze talk about it forever but you got
to experience yes cuz I had headphones
in with white noise and it didn't matter
and it was like wait how is this not
mattering the reason it's impossible to
ignore is that there's no pattern to it
and there's long periods of zero
breathing so you actually as someone who
loves Aaron yes scar you're considering
waking up and starting mouth to mouth
like a couple hundred times a night you
think oh I gotta go nudge him and see if
I can get him started back up I think I
actually now that you're I think I do
have a little
PTSD uh cuz my dad snored or snores I
assume he still snores so if we went on
vacation oh this just happened you guys
went on a family vacation in New York
six years ago five years ago a long time
ago at this point but yeah we went on a
fil all of my life we go on filing
vacations we have one hotel room
obviously and so my mom and dad have a
bed and then me and my brother have a
bed and my dad would snore and then yeah
it would stop
and I I would be like it he's dead Y and
I always thought my dad was dead so like
more reason to think he's dead and so
anyway yes I think I just got a I had a
little PTSD yes so back to the airplane
to date you can't I guess you can't take
it on a plane it's too big right um no I
had it with me you you actually can it's
not even counted as carry on because
it's a medical device oh so yeah I had
it I guess it's never occurred to me to
[__] oh my God that's so great yeah
you're like the guy's like using it to
charge his laptop to do his spreadsheets
you're like I'm so sorry can I take this
power I want to take a nap I all the
lights go out trip the
breaker my but we spent um two weeks
together in the motor home and I didn't
hear him at all but you didn't hear him
that night so I have no trust in your
ability to know the sound I had the
machine in the motor home you did yeah
yeah yeah he was like a little church
mouse with the other mice in fact the
mice were louder than Aaron that's when
I heard him as in the middle of the
night wow that is wild cuz you're right
I can sleep through it for the most part
I just have been 30 30 years of sleeping
in the same room with them and it's it's
crazy but I got there the fact that I do
have hearing good enough that I heard
mice in the middle of the night tells me
my hearing is good while I'm asleep
unless the mouse was right by your ear
no it was like I I think I told this I
thought Aaron was up eating chips right
I was like God damn it he's he's got
he's gotten into the Ruff the mouse was
eating the chips next to me not even
close to Dex no mhm but may but you
heard the bag crinkle I heard the bag
being opened and crunchy Crunch and I
thought Aaron's Aaron's tearing into
those Ruffles in the middle of the night
we're going to have to talk about that
in the
morning hungry
hungry so hungry did you see how
delicately Aaron was handling those mice
on Instagram when we caught them course
I thought it was so nice yeah the tender
side of them it's so
sweet um all right well oh I know an
update that I have to give okay because
Monday's episode we came out that I had
been in a motorcycle race and I was um
just had the singular goal of not
finishing last yep and I achieved that
goal yes yes and I just I guess that's
an update that's worth saying and did
you have fun that was the main had a
blast I was telling Aaron about it today
when we were working out got down there
and I missed the first practice anyways
we had two like Heats and you got time
to see if you'd make it to the main race
and we kept making it through our heats
the race was supposed to start at 1:40
they had been running late all day so we
got down to the track from the pits
which is a bit of a ride so I had
Kristen and Delta on my motorcycle
dcastro had Lincoln on his motorcycle we
ride to the track we're putting them
over the fence so they can watch it's
1:30 we're 10 minutes early and we look
our race is happening oh God it's
happening there's like 10 different
classes and our class is racing and I
have this moment where I'm like no we've
driven all the way to Huntington Beach
now my family's here to watch and
there's the race I'm not in it that's it
so I in a moment of panic I just enter
the track mid race and then by the the
blessings of Thor and V of aalla there
was a bad enough crash right as I
entered that they had to do a total
restart of the race so Then dcastro
followed me out we got on the line
everyone else had already had a lap
restarted the race and we made it in
time for the race it was [__] and
elbows people were crashing left and
right and there were 17 of us and we
finished sixth and seventh the Castro
beat me great sounds perfect sounds like
a perfect race man I did see a little
video Yeah Kristen made fun of it pretty
good did she already tell you about it
she showed me the video oh yeah yeah she
the video was cute good it just was fat
it was over she also missed a lot so two
things she's right and there's a lot of
stuff missing from that video she
doesn't have my P I had I I got two guys
on one turn it was so exciting oh yeah
no no she I think she was more laughing
at that it was very quick yes it was
only six laps right yes on a short track
so I was
telling let's get to the meat of this
cuz I was very quick to admit it to
Aaron so I should admit it to everyone
this is really parallels an experience
oh that's a ding- ding ding Bri you met
Brie oh we have to talk about that okay
so one time after Bri hearing all these
fight St stories all these years we were
at a bar in Santa Monica Dells it was
New Year's Eve these two gang bangers
came in and picked literally picked a
fight with three dudes who all back down
then they pushed Scotty at one point
next thing you know Scotty and I are in
a fight with these two guys yeah the
fight again probably last 45 seconds you
know in my mind it was a six minute
ordeal okay it was probably 45 seconds
and you take that 45 seconds if you're a
boy and then you talk about it for 9
hours
years years yeah you're right even
better talking about it today yep 20
years ago so we're at Scotty's house
after the whole event and we're by the
campfire and now where everyone's
talking about Dean was there buddy from
Detroit everyone just re every element
of this scuffle is being
retold and Bri just ran and maybe
because she was drunk she just hit me
with the truth she's like I don't know I
thought it'd look cooler
wait she saw a video she was there she
was watching me fight this guy oh I see
I see and she's like you know I just
your arms are so long and he was far it
just did I just thought it would look
cooler like maybe I don't like a movie
or something it was so deflating and I
just all of a sudden I could maybe see
it from her point of view and I'm like I
bet it didn't look that cool like in my
mind it looked like Rocky yes she was
like yeah it just didn't look that cool
that's really funny it was a uh reality
shattering to let Christen off the she
was not saying it wasn't cool no no I
know but so the race finishes and we
back in the pits and it mind you now I
have some self-awareness so we get back
to the pits and I noticed Steve and I
are on minute seven of rehashing the
race cuz this guy crashed in front of
him then two guys crash in front of me
then I almost you know I passed those
two guys and and I was I look at Kristen
and I said this is the debrief this is
the 5-second fight that you talk about
for hours right she goes no it's a great
great 30 second
race she said all of that happened
huh wow lot to talk about said it was a
30 second race I was just like oh my it
was so
demoralizing it's for you guys you did
it in the video uh the whole video let
it rip no let it rip no I was like oh
cool but it was like it was but she was
stopping filming between laps for some
reason right sure well probably for to
conserve um CU it wasn't worth the
footage well she stopped between laps no
she got you're you doing your laps a few
okay okay a few she didn't get them all
and she missed the pass okay okay okay
and then um but some of the more
spectacular crashes okay I believe that
that happened and then but in the video
Delta you just see her to around to the
camera she's like where's Dad and like
you had
just oh I wish they hadn't come soon as
they were in position I was like this
isn't worth them having come down for
this I regretted it and then she hit me
with it was 30
seconds well I guess you know what I
don't like about this last fact check I
was like I wish I was invited to this
like you should have invited me I want
to be invited and now you're definitely
not going to invite me to anything well
I told you this is exactly why I don't
want anyone to see anything I do so yeah
it would have been better for me that
just no one saw it and it could have
been my own experience and no one was
reminding me it was 30 seconds and it
would have been but you knew it was
going to be fat like it's not like you
were like I had no idea what it was I
got there I was like what are we doing
tell her about the guy who was ex
Champion that raced in your okay yes yes
so Robbie mattow he's the Jordan of cool
motorcycle stuff he's the one who rode
his motorcycle on the ocean he rode it
at the Olympic Park and jumped the down
ski he makes these incredible Red Bull
videos they're insane he's a legend he
was in the class before us uhhuh one of
the best motorcycle riders in the world
it's the
practice and he goes into turn one some
guy comes flying into him and smashes
into his hand and when he came back into
the pits his [__] finger was almost
torn off he goes this is the worst
injury I've gotten riding a motorcycle
in a decade it was this stupid flat
track race that's 30 seconds
long oh my well I'm glad you made it I
was just delighted I didn't go down half
the people in this race crashed yeah I
will say this I wanted a hundred more
laps like I was just finding my rhythm
on lap six I was like get in the field
of the track and I had passed a couple
guys I'm like you give me a 100 more
laps I'm going to be up there I'm going
to at least get to Castro didn't get
those laps you didn't have enough time
just didn't have enough time to settle
in you only had the 30 seconds that's
crazy okay now Bri Bri yes I met Bri
what yes never had met her I get a text
from Bri yesterday saying I'm at
Houston's and I see Monica oh yeah and
then Dax texted me brie is GNA come say
hi and I said what are you talking about
I'm at Houston's yeah you're assuming I
don't even know where you're at yeah but
I know everything yeah you do you have
eyes everywhere that's right don't ever
think you can double cross me cuz I'm I
know what's going on but no she was at
Houston's I was at Houston's and she
came and said hi I know introduced
herself she was so sweet I was so
nervous to meet her wow and she was
nervous to meet you just adorable does
Bri live in LA she lives in Pasadena she
does okay right by that Houston's you
take you know I put olive oil in my
coffee I'm always trying to get people
to try it and I just had a huge sip of
my very sharp ol oil and now I don't
know what happened and now you're crying
now I'm [__]
up okay so she came up to the table take
a real
water oh boy okay I'm back you're back
that was that got scar for me okay were
you eating by yourself okay I was eating
by myself I go to sometimes I go to see
Jess on Sundays Sunday is tomato soup
and grilled cheese day at Houston's very
limited edition very special day so I'll
go and sit in dress a section by myself
and so that is what I was doing but I
was really nervous and I was like I
didn't dress right you know I didn't
dress appropriately did you get insecure
that you were by
yourself uh I did a little bit after but
I I didn't have time you know it was all
happening so fast got text she was right
at the table oh my God and she looked so
cute she was dressed for an appearance
and um meat cute yeah and uh we hugged
and then oh you started right with a hug
yeah
good was that too strong I love that
that's what I would want for both of you
cuz I like you guys so much I mean I
feel like I know her so well which is
crazy and she probably knows you much
better than you would imagine I assume
she feels somewhat similar to that but
anyway I felt like I was meeting a movie
star and um and she did too she said
those exact words talked for a second
and then she just like you do great
um you know Dax no I said oh Dax just
told me you were going to come by and
she said oh good um and then I think I
said all right
then do you want to go on a men's AA
camping trip in 10
months no I think I said oh do you do
you live in the neighborhood and she
said yeah she said she said where do you
live and I answered but she didn't hear
me I hate when that happens and I had to
repeat it um and then and then we talked
about Houston's and then probably yeah
she said she said yeah I love a here and
I love Jess and talked a little bit more
about the experience and then she was
like have a good meal or what whatever
and she started walking off and then her
and Jess saw each other anduh hug hug
hug hug chat chat
chat uh and then but then I did get a
little nervous because Jess was like
liked her more probably I'm sure I'm
sure he does no he was clearing the
table next to mine and he was going to
try to get quickly like he he wanted to
help she wasn't already seated no oh
okay that's a totally different Dynamic
than she was mid meal and came over to
say hi I think she was waiting she was
waiting for a seat I would have not
wanted to sit next to her well right so
then Jess was starting to clean it and
he was like is it weird I said no I was
like no get her seat her but then as
soon as I saw that I was like no I don't
want that know you have to keep like
making eye contact and smiling and
waving but not joining each other then I
really felt by myself I was like oh [__]
I'm sitting by myself and if she sits
next to me then it's cuz if I have a
friend I can just talk to my friend
that's right but I didn't have a friend
no it could have been really awkward but
it also would have been fine it would
have been fine but it would have been
ner I would have that would I yeah if
I'm mean oh my God yes I love that yes
so he speaks about high of you okay
great enjoy your meal and then I see
them for the next hour one foot away
from me oh my God You' have to well then
I'd say well don't ever look up at that
table cuz you don't want to make I I
would just be on my phone the whole time
and then I'd be insecure the whole time
like they're thinking what is he looking
at if they glance over I'm just staring
at my plate I guess no no phone this is
why we have phones now you can always be
looking at your phone anywh who that
didn't work out she sat somewhere else
okay by the grace of God no it was
really nice to meet her and then on the
way out she came and and they said bye
and I met her husband and her children
oh good she was there with the whole
gang yeah it was really cute do you see
her her little girl Mazy I saw the girl
and the boy yeah yeah yeah they were
really cute I like the little girl cuz
she's got the same ears that stick out
like B I didn't notice that yeah so then
you text me oh my God she's so pretty
and I felt like she was a celebrity and
then so I immediately sent that to Brie
I knew I knew it would make her feel
really happy
I want her to feel happy and she wrote
back oh my God I just said the identical
thing to Jess and she was nervous that
she was meeting a celebrity I thought
this was so sweet on both ends any who
it was really nice to meet her I should
have told her that she that she was
built like a brick [__] house MH how
about this even better compliment than
built like a brick [__] house is the
time she had all the right stuff all the
right [__] [__] you remember that story
eron she and I were two being on the San
Marcos
River and this awesome hillbilly came
he's like coming off the bridge has
cigarette out of his mouth cut off jean
shorts and he saw that I was with her so
it's not like he was hitting on her and
he just goes damn girl you got all the
right [__] he said I I like
that I like that I felt like I time
traveled or something yes cuz I met this
person from your life you know so much
about her so I know so much about her
from you and she's a real person in this
world who goes to Houston
yeah when you sent the text that she was
going to come say hi I was like but
that's Beyonce like Beyonce isn't real
right right just like person people talk
about but she's not
real then also I was like sad
yeah we didn't make it well kind of like
it made me sad that like you can have
this
intense very deep meaningful
relationship with the person and then
now they're at dinner with their husband
and two children and it's just like life
is sad kind of I don't know it's also
beautiful yeah like she and I had some
life together in Santa Monica yeah I
know and now she has this beautiful life
with Brad and her beautiful kids this is
fun for the listener I don't know if
we've ever said this oh you should say
this yeah this is incredible at some
point we hang out with Bri and I I don't
know how this all becomes unveiled but
the point is is Kristen had met Bri like
I think one of one time that Kristen
came over like we first started dating
my mom was in town so Bri was visiting
to hang with my mom yeah and she came
over and we all like ate dinner together
and then Bri left and she was like not
conventional to have dinner with your
exgirlfriend on like a eighth date you
know and I was like I guess yeah but now
she's just a good friend of mine blah
blah blah yeah anyways her husband Brad
who I've talked about he's a genius Brad
Winter Brown he is a [__] Marvel
he's a creative genius he seemed cool
he's super cool I love Brad Kristen went
on a [__] date with Brad in New York
City when she went to NYU like she was
like wait Breeze's new boyfriend is who
oh Brad Winter bomb Oh my God I know I
went on a date with I was like what are
the odds of this so crazy they they also
said it immediately also then so they
like that
old it is really fun Unfortunately they
didn't bang that would be much better
for them well be more tit fortat I guess
everyone's banged everyone yeah everyone
here is [__] so let's just get on with
it I like when I realize that in the
room in our friendship group that was
just a given I don't think anyone had
not slept with anyone in our Core Group
you're right it is beautiful but it's
sad and beautiful I guess that's what
life is all about Bittersweet but what's
beautiful and neat about it is in so
many ways life is short but also life's
long mhm you can have a lot of lives and
you can have like beautiful chapters in
your life and because the end don't mean
they weren't worth your time or
beautiful or memorable and meaningful
and yet there's other chapters yeah
exactly well said do you ever think that
Aaron I I do I don't want to put you in
a position but I know this just happened
like Aaron was just at his kid soccer
game and he's with his ex-wife and it's
just Harmony right it's just like you're
looking at this beautiful boy you guys
created yeah he's such a sweetie pie and
he's huge and gorgeous and he's an
athlete and they're sitting there in
harmony right yeah and it's taken a
while to think like that but I
definitely do and I think there's
chapters that are definitely worth it I
think if people can be grown up about it
it feels dishonorable to pretend that's
the thing for me is like how could you
have spent a decade with Adrien and
pretend you didn't but Aaron and I have
this in common you're friends with all
of your exes yeah even the shorter
relationships I know that you and I had
a lot of when we were younger that we
continue to be friends yeah yeah that's
nice anyway um okay well that was really
a fun Sunday for me to get to meet Bri a
celebrity got to meet a celebrity
yesterday um so I met a lot of your
ex-girlfriends so there's one left that
you are refusing to well there's more
than one left there's one's one you care
about yeah yeah yeah uh I'd like to meet
Carrie oh you'd love Carrie yeah she's
wild yeah gotta meet and trishy do you
want to meet trishy sure yeah let's
let's bring trishy into the mix did you
see the picture I posted of is so cute
oh my God but part of it for me is you
know cuz I'm just like jealous a lot of
everything you know sometimes I have
this with people in my life where I'm
like it's a little uncomfortable that
somebody knew you when I didn't know you
uhhuh I have this with a lot of people
right and of course that's just how life
goes it's normal but it's weird it's
weird when you think you know someone so
well and then you realize oh my God they
had a huge whole life I mean I met you
when you were in you're older than
me had
but really like yeah when I was I was
already 40 no you were were you 40 39
you were on the verge cuz you were on
the verge Delta was born when I was one
week before my 40th birthday I guess
yeah and I was doing some light C for
Lincoln before that anyway little B any
anyway yeah still older than me though
so a whole life yeah I get that I I was
thinking about this a lot the other day
in reference to something else we've
been chatting about I guess like the
thing I occurred to me that just I think
fundamentally you and I have a different
perspective on is you have kind of a
zero sum view of things and I kind of
have an infinite view of things so it's
like if someone's attention goes to
someone else that's attention you're not
getting or Focus you're not getting or
Love sometimes that's real especially
with attention love I think you're right
is more amorphous but yeah I mean if it
was it was really like if you could say
it was black and white like I want plans
with you on Thursday no I'm picking to
go out with Joe sorry Rob did that
trigger you about the the David thing
well we have some internal conflict
Aaron going on Rob wasn't invited to one
thing yeah it turns out Fair everyone
wants Fair's attention God bless him
he's I know I just started wanting
it we've never met in person but I'm I
think about him often get in line Aaron
it's a long ass line so I guess if I had
that experience where it's like I wanted
to hang with someone and I couldn't cuz
that person chose to hang with someone
else I could understand that that just
hasn't been in practice my experience in
life I also think like my formative
friendships like Aaron and I were best
friends with Jack like all three of us
were best friends it never occurred to
me like if Aaron was spending the night
at Jacks and I wasn't
it just started out as a sharing best
friendship Aaron and Aaron and I were
best friends and Aaron and Aaron and
Dean and I were you know yeah yeah we
have a lot of yeah there's it's always
like you and I and some other folks we
kept right but you probably feel safe
because it's always you two and then
there's a third coming in and out at all
times well this sounds like I'll be Pat
myself on the back but because a lot of
these friends I introduced Aaron to so
like I introduced Aaron to my friend
Kurt mhm he and Kurt moved to [__]
Georgia together like I didn't live with
Aaron he didn't come to live in
California with me yeah but I genuinely
was like I'm so glad Aaron's having fun
with Kurt and he's not alone like I just
was like well Aaron and I have a we have
a cellular love for each other and I'm
not worried have you ever been jealous
of any of my friends I was just trying
to I think I'd be lying if I said I
wasn't not when we were young but later
in life yeah I think maybe once in a
while when I'd come out here I knew you
would been having so much fun with like
Nate tuck and I was in a funk in my life
and I think yeah I think those were
maybe sometimes I felt a little jealousy
yeah that makes sense makesense if
you're observing me have something with
someone that's similar to what you and I
have when we're in business yeah right
right yeah and I'd say Nate is the
person that I was most in business with
right Nate and Scotty were the only two
people that I ever felt like that in
business with yeah and um and I am 100%
on board with Nate and Scotty and you
being in business with them no but it's
human I guess that's what like CU
sometimes I think I like that you're
saying that Aaron one it's very
vulnerable and two I think it's more
common to be on this side of those
feelings on your side of them I mean I
yours is very commendable but you really
are working against
some natural primitive Primal humans
security stuff I'm not complimenting
myself I'm not working at this I just
happen to be wired this way I know I'm
happy when you guys are on your road
trips you are okay yeah but uh sometimes
I want to join for a little bit sure
till the storming till the machine
breaks yeah exactly just for like a day
okay we didn't do any facts but there
aren't that many because he knows Beyond
reproach exactly the only thing I will
correct is so you referenced the George
mambad episode and you said that there's
20,000 kinds of fungi Fila right I went
back and listened hard to find the exact
moment but I God bless you wow that was
laborious I'm sure it kind of was but I
found it I found it 1,000 PHA major
groups of bacter in the world and then
all human gut are in fora and those are
the same for Fila Ro in the rizosphere
of the soil yeah so 1,000 versus 20 not
bad 20x
error not bad um and then I guess I just
thought it was interesting I didn't
realize how rare
spleen cancer like how rarely it
metastasizes in the spleen very
interesting like all the secrets must
lie within the spleen do you know this
the spleen and the liver are identical
in shape yet the liver gets Cancer all
the time and the spleen won't get almost
never gets like never heard of yeah is
it's traveling all through the body the
spleen is like no you can't stop here
well it can happen but it's so rare so
it's 2% of all lymphomas but
comparatively it's very hard to
metastasize in there and they don't know
why it's a very encouraging thing to
know I think so yeah cuz you think if
you could recreate the
microbiome or whatever the the microcosm
cell whatever's happening in that spleen
if you could recreate it in other organs
it'd be nearly impervious to cancer I
know or can you just pull the cancerous
cells out of everywhere else in your
body and put it into your to get it
munched up e like a garbage disposal
munched up yeah that would also be good
if it protected any abnormalities to
send that's what the immune system is
supposed to do and then it just gets
thwarted it gets thwarted it's great
word that those were the only two things
well there was one more but it sted like
two more but well one was that you said
that psychedelics and ecstasy are
prevalent in carola but were you just
saying that I was not saying that okay I
I had a friend who relapsed and it was
on a spiritual sojourn to Carol
and they told me well you know
everything is available there everywhere
and it's all very high just in carola
really yes and that it's very cuz it's a
big Meditation Retreat area I think it's
a pocket of like where people go to take
Retreats I think this person was like it
started with you know kind of a
tmishion that seems medicinal and great
and then it was turn into everything he
came home he drinking again yeah yeah
sucks um but according to him this is
one human's account of what he found
yeah whatever I don't know I certainly
like to go find out double check cross
those te and Dot those eyes yeah ask
some people for for science I can't get
ecstasy from you right there's this
doesn't isn't prevalent here is it you
don't have Molly do
you you're not allowed I'm going to tell
them those are my people see if you see
a big honky don't you dare too many
tattoos you'll see him you'll see he'll
be bragging about a 30 second race he
just finished seventh
in he'll talk to you for an hour about
good seventh is good listen it's way
above what I was expecting yeah that's
great all right I love you love Yeah
guys order a c meal from Aaron as you
heard he'll he'll be [__] up over it
if he doesn't send you good he cares so
much that he thinks about it days after
that says a lot it really does I'm glad
you feel that way about it to be honest
I'm glad that you're glad cuz I was
embarrassed to say it sweet anything you
do you should [__] care about doing
it or don't do it I agree I agree all
right all right love you guys love you
[Music]